---
title: "Production Credit Associations and Agricultural Productivity Change in the United States, 1920-1940"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2017-12-01-fcs
excerpt: 'In this paper, we present empirical evidence of the effect of the FCS on agricultural yields, crop value, and use of inputs.'
date: 2017-12-01
venue: 'Manuscript'
---
*with Brent Hueth*
The U.S. Congress initiated policy in 1916 to create what would eventually become a national Farm Credit System (FCS) that continues in operation to this day. The FCS was the first of several “government sponsored entities” (GSEs), as these institutions would later come to be known, created for the purpose of increasing access to credit in targeted economic sectors. Unlike other GSEs, the FCS was established under a structure that assigned autonomy, and considerable obligation for equity finance, to local cooperative organizations of farmers. If and how the FCS has aided the development of U.S. agriculture is interesting in itself, and of particular interest to understanding how this policy instrument can be applied in other contexts. In this paper, we present empirical evidence of the effect of the FCS on agricultural yields, crop value, and use of inputs. We focus on lending by Production Credit Associations (PCAs) that were created to provide short-term production credit, a type of loan that, at the time, was provided almost exclusively by informal “merchant lenders” that charged high rates of interest. Using distances to PCAs as a proxy for credit access, we use a difference-in-difference approach to examine the effects credit expansion on several county-level outcome measures. We find that areas closer to PCAs were less productive than areas farther away before program implementation, but then become more productive in years after.



